Hello this is Kirill from forex boat dot com.
And welcome back to the course and for extruding.
Today we're going to talk about the moving average indicator.
So personally I think the moving average is a very powerful indicator.
It's very simple and in Forex.
Very often Simplicity is the key to your success.
If you overcomplicate things then you might miss out on the obvious.
So today we're going to talk about moving average.
We'll see how is constructed and then we'll see a few examples of how to do that and trading strategies
.
And I'll just give you a few more thoughts on this indicator.
All right so similar to what we do in the past the of the average Chura age indicator.
Let's have a look at how the moving average is constructed.
So if we take the far past four bars and we take the close prices of these bars and then we plot the
average of them it looks something like this.
Next if we move to one bar to the left and we take the average of the four bars there then we plot it
.
It looks like this.
Then if we keep going and keep plotting the average every time we can keep going as far as we want left
and we'll get a picture like this.
Next we'll connect all these points on our chart with a line and get rid of the crosses.
So that's how your moving average indicator looks.
And this particular moving average has a period of four.
And that's because of the way we constructed it we're looking at four bars.
Every time this case is a bit different to the average terrains because we don't have to plot this indicator
in a separate chart and you'll notice that on the forex market and Ameritrade or four there are two
types of indicators.
Those that are plotted on the same chart as the press and those that are it in a separate chart.
And in this particular instance we didn't have to plot it separately because the actual range in which
indicate it has its values is actually the same of the chart as the chart.
So what we're taking is we take an average of the of potful prices so it will be somewhere there on
the chart.
Whereas with the average sheer range indicator we are taking the difference of the high and the low
.
So obviously if your highs 1.5 and your lows 1.4 than the differences 0.1 it's not going to be anywhere
near the current values in the chart so it be very far down.
So you have to kind of plot it on a separate chart.
So that's all moving average.
Let's have a look at the moving average on a real 4 x chart.
So that's of Eurodollar already time frame chart.
And as you can see here I've uploaded the moving average for period of 48.
So in this case it means that every single value of the moving average represents the average close
price for the past 48 bars because this is a one hour timeframe.
Forty eight means two days.
So two times 24.
So it basically means that average close price on the hour the time frame for the past two days.
And that's how it's been changing.
You can see that it went first down the average and start picking up and then it started going down
again.
So how can you use the moving average in your trading.
There are several methods of using the moving average but we'll look at the two main ones and the two
most simple straightforward and most frequently used methods.
So the first one is using the moving average is a signal generator.
Let's have a look at the chart again.
Can you see here that when on the left the price crosses the moving average downwards.
It keeps going down.
So in that case when the price crossed the moving average down you would sell expecting the price to
keep going down.
And then when the price crossed the moving average upwards it kept going that way.
So you could buy here expecting that it will keep going that way.
And then once again crossed down.
You could sell expecting that the price would go down.
So as you can see in times when there is a trend on the market if the price is low the moving average
then it's a downward trend.
If the price is above the moving average then it's an upward trend.
So this strategy works during TrimTabs unfortunately doesn't work during flat times like when there's
no movement on the market because the price seems tends to be very close to the moving average and that
can crossover very frequently.
So you have to be careful when you use the strategy but do keep in mind that if you see the price above
the moving average and most likely you are currently in an upward trend.
Next the other way of using the moving average is using it as a support or resistance line.
And this is actually very interesting.
You will notice that our support resistance line where the trend lines or levels.
And that's what we talked about previously but now we've got a moving Sopore resistance line.
So let's have a look at that.
We've got the moving average here the same one as we talked about.
Can you see how on the right during the uptrend the price actually bounced off the moving average one
time the second time and the third time.
So that's not a coincidence that is quite a frequent phenomenon on the forks market.
And if you find you have to kind of pick the right period of your moving average which we'll talk about
in a minute.
But if you pick the right one for the right situation you can actually effectively construct a moving
supportive resistance line which is very powerful and there are many different speculations why this
works.
And for example one of them is because other traders also use a moving average.
And when a lot of traders and decision makers for large funds use the same strategy tends to work.
And in this case they see the price approaching the moving average and they know that it's going to
act as a support line so they can buy.
And then they buy again and they buy again every time that happens.
So this strategy may work for that reason.
But regardless of why exactly it works it's a good thing to call forth.
And moreover in our live trading on a real for X amount of further in this course you will see us use
this strategy to our advantage to make profits.
And I'll explain exactly how I pick the right period for the moving average and how to better use it
in your life trading.
And finally the last remark I want to make an editorial was that the period of the moving average is
very important.
Let's have a look at the chart again.
So this is the moving average period of 48.
If you plot the moving average of a period of 12 that's how it will look like.
And if people are moving out to a period of one hundred fifty that's how it will look like.
So as you can see all of them are very different and they can give you different insights into the market
and actually different recommendations to what you have to do so it's up to you as the trader to pick
the right moving average for your currency pair for your timeframe and for your particular situation
.
Don't worry it might sound complicated but in reality it's very simple.
And with time you will get the hang of it.
And with every single situation you'll get better and better at picking the right period of the moving
average.
That's all for today's tutorial.
Next time we'll be talking about algorithmic trading and expert advises on the forex market.
And until then happy trading